[[IMG:image1.jpeg]]
IBPS PO Exam
P r e l i m s E n g l i s h P r e v i o u s P a p e r
Direction (1-7): Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow.
Economic interdependence and globalization has resulted in a system in which each country is largely			dependent		upon		other	 countries	for economic			sustainability	(though				to			varying degrees). This results in a substantial national security threat in the form of conflicting or offensive		trade		 strategies		between	countries. Indeed, economics is often used directly as a weapon of war and conflict via trade sanctions. This highlights a critical protectionist argument pertaining to the very real risk of dependency upon other		nations		for		economic		sustainability. An interesting discussion in economics is the relationship between trade and conflict. It has been noted, somewhat intuitively and empirically, that conflict reduces trade. However, is it also the case that trade reduces conflict? This question is largely unanswered, although the stances are becoming more highly developed. It is hypothesized that trade does not necessarily reduce conflict, but instead			 changes			the		nature	of		the		conflict. Economic levers are much more practical than military levers, and are often used for similar reasons. For this reason, it is difficult to separate trade and conflict completely because there is some critical overlap between the two. This is a fundamental foundation for the trade protectionism logic	from		a	national	 security			perspective. A more specific context for trade and conflict can be the way in which trade is complicated during wartime. Indeed, trade during wartime can be a substantial threat to a nation depending on the scale and scope of the conflict (most notably who is involved). For example, consider World War II. In this scenario Germany was largely isolated in the conflict, and therefore had extremely limited trade partners. Direct conflict will almost always result in a complete cease in trading not only between the country in which the war is occurring, but also any of that country's allies (who may or may not be directly involved). However, some argue self-sufficiency (via protectionism) in war is not necessary, as friendly nations will still provide trade and economic support.
Sanctions also play a dramatic role as an offensive militaristic manoeuver. Iran and North Korea are strong modern examples as well as the recent history of the U.S.-Iraq war. In all of these circumstances, either the U.S. alone or along with a number of allies (representing substantial consumption percentages) actively limited the ability for these countries to trade and generate economic value for their nations (and subsequently their people). While this looks purely economic, it has important social and humanitarian implications as well.
Combining these ideas, it is clear that there is substantial national security value to trade protectionism. However, the opportunity cost of leveraging the ever-growing global markets makes this an unattractive prospect if taken to any
extreme, as the benefits of global trade rapidly offset the risk of economic dependency upon hostile nations.
Trade is specifically complicated for a nation during wartime because-
nations and their allies that are in direct conflict mostly cease the trade altogether
the economy of the warring nation collapses completely
even friendly nations cease trading and economic support during the wartime
it is impossible to carry out trade during war and conflict
None of these
What is the motive of the author behind writing this passage?
To analyse the effects of conflict on trade and vice versa
To explain the irrelevance of trade protectionism in the globalized world
To evaluate the arguments in favour of the use of trade protectionism for national security
To analyse social and humanitarian implications of trade protectionism
To highlight the importance of self-sufficiency for national security
Which of the following can be used as a weapon of war and conflict?
Extreme economic dependence
Trade sanctions
Currency manipulation
Withdrawal of bilateral treaties
All of the above
Which of the following statements can be definitely concluded in the context of trade and conflict?
They are overlapping in nature
It is believed that conflict reduces trade
Trade changes the nature of conflict
Only (i)
Only (iii)
(i), (ii) and (iii)
Both (i) and (ii)
Both (i) and (iii)
How did sanctions play a dramatic role as an offensive militaristic manoeuvre during the U.S-Iraq war?
By isolating Iraq on various cultural and religious platforms
By hindering the flow of technology and innovation
By inhibiting the trading capacity of Iraq
Only (i)
Only (iii)
Both (ii) and (iii)
Both (i) and (ii)
Both (i) and (iii)
Which of the following statements is a substantial protectionist argument pertaining to the risk of dependency upon other nations for economic sustainability?
Dependency on other nations indirectly influences the domestic and foreign policies of a nation
Threat in the form of conflicting or offensive trade strategies between countries
Subservience on various economic and sovereignty issues
A. Only (i)	B. Only (iii)
C. (i), (ii) and (iii)	D. Only (ii)
E. None of these
Which of the following statements is definitely FALSE in the context of the given passage?
Trade and conflict are interrelated
Germany was largely isolated during the World War II
The ever growing global markets have weakened the importance of trade protectionism as a national security measure
Sanctions as an offensive militaristic manoeuvre have important social and humanitarian implications
None of the above
Direction (8-12): Rearrange the following six sentences A, B, C, D, E and F in the proper sequence to form a meaningful paragraph, then answer the questions given below them.
While the reference point for the former is the state, for the latter it’s society.
India’s strategic community’ comprises two distinct circles with little overlap.
Consequently, mainstream strategists have an external orientation to their discourse, concentrating on high politics; the latter is more internal oriented.
Their prescriptions too are understandably poles apart and thus, the state, to which both their commentary is directed, has to play balancer, and ends up being at the receiving end of criticism from both sides.
Out of the two, one can be termed the ‘mainstream’ and the other ‘alternate’.
To further elaborate on the external and internal concept−while one is enamored of India’s rise and place in the global order, the other is more sensitive to its vulnerabilities and inadequacies.
Which of the following should be the FOURTH sentence after rearrangement?
E	B. D
C. C	D. B
E. A
Which of the following should be the SIXTH sentence after rearrangement?
A	B. B
C. C	D. D
E. E
Which of the following should be the SECOND sentence after rearrangement?
E	B. D
C. C	D. B
E. A
Which of the following should be the FIRST sentence after rearrangement?
A	B. B
C. C	D. D
E. E
Which of the following should be the THIRD sentence after rearrangement?
A	B. B
C. C	D. D
E. E
Direction (13-20): In the following passage, there are blanks, each of which has been numbered. These numbers are printed below the passage and against each, five words are suggested, one of which fits the blank appropriately. Find out the appropriate word in each case
Invention should not be (###Q13###) with innovation though both involve creativity to design a new product or conceive a new idea or process. Innovation is more than just invention, for, after creating something new, innovation would make it a/an (###Q14###) through action and implementation. The best innovators are those who constantly seek to make components that are better, faster, cheaper and more efficient, thereby increasing the (###Q15###) of what they make and sell. After they have implemented this upgrade, the innovator will then file a (###Q16###) to protect his/her interests. While some may actually succeed using this (###Q17###) an/a (###Q18###) number of such creations fail because they are often theoretical, without a basis for marketability. Therefore, a more (###Q19###) approach is to look at market data, talk to (###Q20###) customers, understand their requirements and then devise a solution to address a particular problem.
Find the appropriate word in each case.
Bound	B. Confused
C. Entangled	D. Jumbled
E. Interlinked
Find the appropriate word in each case.
reality	B. authenticity
C. basis	D. justification
E. achievement
Find the appropriate word in each case.
benefit	B. desirability
C. availability	D. purchase
E. value
Find the appropriate word in each case.
share	B. Case
C. patent	D. certificate
E. privilege
Find the appropriate word in each case.
Technology	B. Policy
C. Rule.	D. Scheme
E. Methodology
Find the appropriate word in each case.
irresistible	B. overwhelming
C. negligible	D. massive
E. insignificant
Find the appropriate word in each case.
energetic	B. precarious
C. feeble	D. robust
E. vigorous
Find the appropriate word in each case.
potential	B. empathetic
C. accomplished	D. patronizing
E. influential
Read each sentence to find out whether there is any grammatical error or idiomatic error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. The letter of that part is the answer. If there is no error, mark the answer as No error. (Ignore errors of the punctuation if any).
It was a long / and uncomfortable journey / but he managed / to reach with time.
It was a long
and uncomfortable journey
but he managed
to reach with time.
No error
Direction: Read each sentence to find out whether there is an error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. If there is no error, the answer will be “No Error”.
Just as a letter’s physical presence, then,
resists the rationalisations of the public
sphere, its temporal idiosyncrasies resisted the
efficiencies of capitalist production.
No error.
Direction: Read each sentence to find out whether there is an error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. If there is no error, the answer will be “No Error”.
Linking traditional American Native stories
to historic records of a Japanese tsunami
was considered an exception, not the start
of a fruitful geological collaboration.
No error.
Direction: Read each sentence to find out whether there is an error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. If there is no error, the answer will be “No Error”.
This is one of London’s most
important and ancient axial routes,
roughly following the line of
a Roman through-road.
No error
Direction: Read each sentence to find out whether there is any grammatical error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. If there is no error, the answer is (E), ie ‘No error’. (Ignore the errors of punctuation, if any.)
The consolation messages (A) / received on the (B)/ demise of Mrs. Malhotra (C) / speaks highly of her enormity. (D)
(A)	B. (B)
C. (C)	D. (D)
E. No error
Direction: Read each sentence to find out whether there is any grammatical error or idiomatic error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. The letter of that part is the answer. If there is no error, mark the answer as No error. (Ignore errors of the punctuation if any).
Do you wanted / to discuss this/ project today or can / we do it tomorrow?
Do you wanted	B. to discuss this
C. project today or can  D. we do it tomorrow
E. No error
Direction: Read each sentence to find out whether there is any grammatical error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. If the sentence is correct as it is mark 'no error' as the answer.
Jaitely announced a waivered of the service charge (a)/ on e-tickets and spoke about a number of steps (b)/ to improve passenger amenities (c)/ such as a ‘coach mitra’ facility. (d)/ No error (e).
Jaitely announced a waivered of the service charge
on e-tickets and spoke about a number of steps
to improve passenger amenities
such as a ‘coach mitra’ facility
No error
Direction: Read each sentence to find out whether there is any grammatical error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. If there is no error, the answer is (E), ie ‘No error’. (Ignore the errors of punctuation, if any.)
The reason why he failed/ to attend the meeting/ with a complete presentation/ was because he was unwell./ No error
The reason why he failed
to attend the meeting
with a complete presentation
was because he was unwell.
no error
Direction (29-30): Read each sentence to find out whether there is any grammatical error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. If there is no error, the answer is ‘No error’. (Ignore the errors of punctuation, if any.)
Their innovative zeal has / touched the lives of 125 crore / Indians and make India/proud worldwide./ No error
Their innovative zeal has
touched the lives of 125 crore
Indians and make India
proud worldwide.
No error
The coverage of schemes remain /patchy because of rampant / leakages, and poor execution / and monitoring. / No error
The coverage of schemes remain
patchy because of rampant
leakages, and poor execution
and monitoring
No error
Directions (31-35): Study the following table and answer the questions that follow.
What is the average number of two wheelers sold in Mumbai for all these years?
21650	B. 22150
C. 22650	D. 23150
E. 23650
In 2003 if Bajaj sold 35% of the total two wheelers, then what is the total number of vehicles sold by Bajaj across these cities?
22955	B. 23065
C. 23155	D. 23265
E. 22165
In 2003 if Bajaj sold 35% of the total two wheelers, then what is the approximate average number of vehicles sold by Bajaj across these cities?
7700	B. 7500
C. 7400	D. 8700
E. 8100
Total number of two wheelers sold in Kolkata from 2001 – 2004 is what percent of total vehicles sold in Delhi from 2001 to 2003?
32.5%	B. 32.9%
C. 33.3%	D. 33.6%
E. 34.2%
What is the difference between percentages of two wheelers sold in Delhi and Kolkata from 2001 – 04?
15%	B. 20%
C. 25%	D. 30%
A, B & C started a business and invested in the ratio 7:6:5. Next Year, they increased their investment by 25%, 20% and 15%, respectively. In what ratio should profit earned only during 2nd year be distributed?
155:144:175	B. 155:124:95
C. 135:147:152	D. 175:144:115
E. None of the above
A shopkeeper gives 20% discount on the marked price of a book. He provides 1 pair of books free with the sale of 9 pair of books. In the whole transaction, he gets profit of 26%. Find the percentage increase in marked price from the cost price.
35%	B. 65%
C. 75%	D. 26%
E. None of these
Directions: What will come in the place of the question mark (?) in the following number series? 305, 338, 404, 503, 635 , (?)
820	B. 880
C. 800	D. 890
E. None of these
Directions: What should come in place of the question mark (?) in the following number series? 1, 3, 24, 360, 8640, 302400, ?
14525100	B. 154152000
C. 14515200	D. 15425100
E. None of the above
Directions: What will come in place of the question marks (?) in the following Number series?
8, 14, 26, 44, 68 (?)
94	B. 102
C. 96	D. 98
E. None of these
Direction: What will come in place of the question
​
E. 35%
The average marks in science subject of a class of
20 students is 68. If the marks of two students were misread as 48 and 65 of the actual marks 72 and 61 respectively, then what would be the correct average?
A. 68.5	B. 69
C. 69.5
D. 70
E. 66
mark (?) in the following number series? 14, 18, 9, 25, 0, ?
11	B. 23
C. 36	D. 20
E. 40
Direction: What will come in place of the question mark (?) in the following number series?
11, 19, 40, 87, 173, ?
301	B. 311
[[IMG:image4.png]]In a container, there is 960 ltr of pure milk from which 48 ltr of milk is replaced with 48 ltr of water, again 48 ltr milk is replaced by same amount of water, as this process is done once more. Now, what is the amount of pure milk?
901.54 ltr	B. 821.54 ltr
C. 719.64 ltr	D. 823.08 ltr
E. 829.64 ltr
4 years ago, the ratio of 1/2 of Anita’s age at that time and four times of Bablu’s age at that time was 5 : 12. Eight years hence, 1/2 of Anita’s age at that time will be less than Bablu’s age at that time by 2 years. What is Bablu’s present age?
10 years	B. 24 years
C. 9 years	D. 15 years
E. 18 years
C. 304	D. 294
E. 350
In a single throw with 2 dices, what is probability of neither getting an even number on one and nor a multiple of 3 on other?
11/36	B. 25/36
C. 5/6	D. 1/6
E. None of these
8 men can complete a work in 16 days. 16 women can complete the same work in 24 days. In how many days can 4 men and 8 women complete the same work?
8	B. 20
C. 19.2	D. 55
E. 40
[[IMG:image5.png]][[IMG:image6.png]]Both S.I. and C.I. is calculated with a similar rate of 10% per annum on a sum of rupees. If C.I. is calculated yearly for two years, then for what period must S.I. be evaluated such that S.I. = C.I.?
4.2 years	B. 2.1 years
C. 1.6 years	D. 1.4 years
E. None of the above
A uniformly moving train of length 480 m takes 3 minutes to completely cross a platform. If the same train, with the same speed crosses a pole completely in 30 sec, then the length of the platform is -
1 km	B. 600 m
C. 4.8 km	D. 1.2 km
E. 2.4 km
The perimeter of a rectangle whose length is 6 metre more than its breadth is 84 metre. What is the area of the triangle whose base is equal to the diagonal of the rectangle and height is equal to the length of the rectangle?
360sq metre	B. 380 sq metre
C. 360 metre	D. 400 sq metre
E. None of these
Direction: In each question two equations numbered I and II are given, you have to solve both the equation and choose the correct answer.
5x2 + 28x = -15
3y2 + 11y + 6 = 0
A. X > Y	B. X ≥ Y
C. X < Y	D. X ≤ Y
E. X = Y or the relationship cannot be established
Direction: In each question two equations numbered I and II are given, you have to solve both the equation and choose the correct answer.
x2 + 30x + 81 = 0
y2 - 9y - 162 = 0
A. x > y	B. x > y
C. x < y	D. x < y
E. x = y or the relationship can’t be established
Direction: In the following questions two equations numbered I and II are given. You have to solve both the equations and give answers
2x ² – 21x + 54 = 0
y ² – 14y + 49 = 0
A. x = y or relation can’t be established between x and y
B. x > y	C. x < y
D. x ≥ y	E. x≤ y
Directions (54-55): In the given questions, two equations numbered I and II are given. Solve both the equation and mark the appropriate answer.
I. x2 – 5x – 24 = 0
II. 2y2 + 19y + 35 = 0
A. x > y	B. x > y
C. x < y	D. x < y
E. x = y or relationship between x and y cannot be determined.
I. x2=529
II.
x>y	B. x≥y
C. x<y	D. x≤y
E. x=y or relation can’t be established.
Directions (56-60): Study the following graph carefully and answer the questions given below it. Consumption of two kinds of Wheat represented by ABC and XYZ respectively in the given years by a village (in thousand tons
What was the difference in consumption of ABC and XYZ in 2014?
5 tons	B. 500 tons
C. 600 tons	D. 5000 tons
E. None of these
In which of the following years, the consumption of both the types of wheat together was 2nd lowest?
2010	B. 2012
C. 2013	D. 2014
E. None of these
In which of the following pair of years, the consumption of type ABC was equivalent to the consumption of both types of rice in 2015?
2010 and 2011	B. 2011 and 2015
C. 2010 and 2015	D. 2013 and 2015
E. None of these
In how many years, the consumption of Wheat of type ABC was less than the average consumption of Wheat of type XYZ in all the given years?
1	B. 2
C. 3	D. 4
E. 5
What is the percent decrease in consumption of ABC in 2014 in comparison to 2012?
25%	B. 10%
C. 8%	D. 12.5%
E. None of these
Direction: What approximate value should come in place of the question mark (?) in the following equation (Note: You are not expected to calculate the exact value)?
√580 × ∛510 + 49.999 x 3.999=?
384	B. 392
C. 410	D. 372
E. 402
Directions: What approximate value should come in place of the question mark (?) in the following equation (Note: You are not expected to calculate the exact value)?
(55.01+16.0003) × 22.01 ÷ 10.998 =?
190	B. 130
C. 110	D. 142
E. 175
Direction: What approximate value should come in place of the question mark (?) in the following equation (Note: You are not expected to calculate the exact value)?
499.99 + 1999 ÷ 39.99 × 50.01=?
3200	B. 2700
C. 3000	D. 2500
E. 2400
Direction: What approximate value should come in place of the question mark (?) in the following equation (Note: You are not expected to calculate the exact value)?
[(7.99)2 – (13.001)2 +(4.01)3]2 =?
-1800	B. 1450
C. -1660	D. 1660
E. -1450
Directions: What approximate value should come in place of the question mark (?) in the following questions? (You are not expected to calculate the exact value.)
65. 21.003 × 39.998 – 209.91 = 126 × ?
5	B. 4
C. 3	D. 2
E. 6
Direction: In the following questions, relationship between different elements are shown in the statements. These statements are followed by two conclusions. Give answer
Statements: A > B < C < D, C > E, F > D Conclusions:
A > E
F > E
if only conclusion I is true.
if only conclusion II is true.
if either conclusion I or II is true.
if neither conclusion I nor II is true.
if both conclusion I and II are true.
Direction: In the following questions, relationship between different elements are shown in the statements. These statements are followed by two conclusions. Give answer
Statements: K > L = M < N, O < L > P
Conclusions: I. K > O II. N > O
if only conclusion I is true.
if only conclusion II is true.
if either conclusion I or II is true.
if neither conclusion I nor II is true.
if both conclusion I and II are true.
Direction: In the following questions, relationship between different elements are shown in the statements. These statements are followed by two conclusions. Give answer
Statements: A < B > C, D > B < E
Conclusions: I. D > A II. E > C
if only conclusion I is true.
if only conclusion II is true.
if either conclusion I or II is true.
if neither conclusion I nor II is true.
if both conclusion I and II are true.
In these questions, a relationship between different elements	is	shown	in	the	statements.	The statements are followed by two conclusions. Statements: M < S < T = R > D > E > F, G < S < H
Conclusions:
G = R
G < R
Only conclusion I is true.
Only conclusion II is true.
Either conclusion I or II is true.
Neither conclusion I nor II is true.
Both conclusion I and II is true.
Direction: In each of these question, the relationships between two or more elements are shown in the statements. These statements are followed by two conclusions. Read the statements and give answer
Statement: A > B < P, Q < R > P Conclusion:
B < R
Q > A
Only conclusion I follows.
Only conclusion II follows.
Either conclusion I or II follows.
Neither conclusion I nor II follows.
Both conclusions I and II follow.
Direction	(71-75):	Study	the	following information carefully to answer the questions.
Eight friends, J, K, L, M, N, O, S and I are sitting around a square table each of them faces the centre. Four of them sit at the centre of the square and other four sits sides of the corner. Each of them likes different Colours viz Red, Brown, Blue, Yellow, Purple, Green, Pink and Black, but not necessarily in the same order. I, sits one corner side of a square and likes Red Colour. K sits third to the right of I. M sits third to the right of K and likes Purple Colour. O sits immediate left of M and likes Yellow Colour. N and J are immediate neighbours to each other and likes Blue and Brown Colours respectively. The one who likes Blue is not an immediate neighbour of the one who likes Red. S is not an immediate neighbour of I, who is neither an immediate neighbour of the one who likes Pink nor Green. K does not like Green.
Who likes Black Colour?
S	B. K
C. L	D. Data inadequate
E. None of these
Who sits third to the left of the one who likes Pink Colour?
I	B. M
C. L	D. Data inadequate
E. None of these
If 'S' is related to 'Red', 'N' is related to 'Purple'. In the same way 'J' is related to which of the following?
Brown	B. Pink
C. Black	D. Green
E. None of these
Four of the following five are alike in a certain waybased on the given seating arrangement and thus form a group. Which is the one that does not belong to the group?
K	B. N
C. L	D. O
E. None of these
Which of the following information is definitely true with respect to given information?
L is an immediate neighbour of N
K sits second to the right of O
L likes Pink Colour
J likes Brown Colour
None is true
Directions (86-90): In each question given below three statements are followed by two conclusions numbered I and II. You have to take the three given statements to be true even if they seem to be at variance with the commonly known facts. Read the conclusions and decide which conclusion logically follows from the three given statement disregarding commonly known facts. Give answer -
Statements: All tables are chairs. All chairs are pencil.
Some pencil are pen.
Conclusions:
All tables are pencils.
All pens being tables is a possibility.
Only conclusion I follows.
Only conclusion II follows.
Either conclusion I or II follows.
Neither conclusion I nor II follows.
Both conclusion I and II follow.
Directions: Study the following information and answer the questions.
In each of the questions below are given two or three statements followed by two conclusions numbered I, II and III. You have to take the given statements to be true even if they seem to be at variance with commonly known facts. Read all the conclusions and then decide which of the given conclusions logically follow from the given statements, disregarding commonly known facts.
Statements: Some stones are rocks All rocks are hills
Conclusions:
All rocks being stones is a possibility
At least some hills are stones
Only conclusion I follows.
Only conclusion II follows.
Either conclusion I or conclusion II follows.
Neither conclusion I nor conclusion II follows.
Both conclusions I and II follow.
In each question given below three statements are followed by two conclusions numbered I and II. You have to take the three given statements to be true even if they seem to be at variance from the commonly known facts. Read the conclusions and decide which logically follows from the three-given statement disregarding commonly known facts. Give answer
Statements: No officer is manager. Some managers are staffs.
Some honest are officers.
Conclusions:
It is possibility that some honest are staff.
It is possibility that all manager is honest.
Only conclusion I follows.
Only conclusion II follows.
Either conclusion I or II follows.
Neither conclusion I nor II follows.
Both conclusions I and II follow.
In each question given below three statements are followed by two conclusions numbered I and II. You have to take the three given statements to be true even if they seem to be at variance from the commonly known facts. Read the conclusions and decide which logically follows from the three-given statement disregarding commonly known facts. Give answer
Statements: Some doors are bells. Some bells are bags.
All opens are bell.
Conclusions:
Some open are doors.
All bags can be open is a possibility.
Only conclusion I follows.
Only conclusion II follows.
Either conclusion I or II follows.
Neither conclusion I nor II follows.
Both conclusions I and II follow.
Directions: Study the following information and answer the questions.
In each of the questions below are given two or three statements followed by two conclusions numbered I, II and III. You have to take the given statements to be true even if they seem to be at variance with commonly known facts. Read all the conclusions and then decide which of the given conclusions logically follow from the given statements, disregarding commonly known facts.
Statements:
Some flats are apartments Some apartments are halls No hall is a room Conclusions:
At least some halls are flats
All rooms being apartments is a possibility
Only conclusion I follows.
Only conclusion II follows.
Either conclusion I or conclusion II follows.
Neither conclusion I nor conclusion II follows.
Both conclusions I and II follow.
Direction (81-85): Study the following information carefully to answer the given questions.
E, F, G, H, I, J, K and L are sitting in a straight line, but not necessarily in the same order. Some of them are not facing north. Only three persons sit between I and F. Both H and E face the same direction and H sits third to the right of E. I is not an immediate neighbour of E or H. K sits on the immediate left of F, who faces north. J sits on the immediate right of G. Neither E nor H is an immediate neighbour of G. Both the immediate neighbours of F face opposite directions. K and J both face the same direction. L sits second to the right of K. I is not facing the same direction as G is facing. G sits at one of the extreme ends of the line. Both K and J face the same direction as L. Only three persons sit between K and G.
How many persons are not facing north?
Two	B. Three
C. Four	D. Five
E. None of these
Who among the following sit at the extreme ends of the line?
I,G	B. E,K
C. L,G	D. F,I
E. None of these
Who among the following sits exactly between H and the one who is third to the right of I?
L	B. F
C. J	D. E
E. None of these
Who among the following is on the immediate left of L?
I	B. F
C. J	D. E
E. None of these
Which of the following statements is true?
Only two persons between G and F
Only three persons between J and K
L faces the same directions as F
E is third to the right of H
None is true
Direction (86-90): Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it.
Eight persons A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H live on an eight floors building. The ground floor is numbered
1 and the topmost floor is 8. They run in a race different meters, 4200m, 5600m, 6100m, 6800m, 7400m, 7800m, 8200m and 9400m but not necessarily in the same order. A runs 4200m lives on even numbered floor below 5th floor. The one who live on 4th and 5th floor total run 12000m. Three persons live between A and C. Two persons live between C and H. Three persons live between H and the one who runs 7400m. One person lives between G and the one who runs 7400m and G lives above the one who runs 7400m. Two persons live between G and the one who runs 5600m. D, who runs 6800m, is lives above A on an odd numbered floor. The one who lives just above D is run less than D. B lives above G. The one who lives on 3rd floor runs more than E who runs more than F.
The person who runs the highest lives on which of the following floor?
1st	B. 2nd
C. 3rd	D. 8th
E. 5th
How many persons run more than B?
2	B. 3
C. 4	D. 5
E. More than 5
Which of the following combination is correct?
D-6100m	B. C-7th floor
C. A-4th floor	D. E-7400m
E. G-4th floor
H runs how many meters?
5600m	B. 7800m
C. 9400m	D. 8200m
E. 6100m
Who among the following lives on the 7th floor?
A	B. B
C. D	D. H
E. G
Direction (91-93): Study the following information and answer the questions.
Rahul goes to his office from his house by a car. He drives the car from point A. He drives 5km towards south and reaches point B, then he turns to his right and drives 4km and reaches point C. Now he turns to his right and drives 12km and reaches point D. He then takes a left turn and drives 5km and reaches point E. Finally he drives 7km towards south and reaches his office.
What is the distance between point A and his office?
10km	B. 9km
C. 7km	D. 6km
E. None of these
If point G is 4km to the east of the point D, then how far is G from A and in which direction from point A?
7km, north	B. 5km, north
C. 9km, south	D. 7km, east
E. None of these
If Rahul goes 5km to the east from the office, then how far and in which direction will he be from point D?
7km, south	B. 4km, north
C. 1km, south	D. 5km, north
E. None of these
Direction (94-96): Study the following information and answer the questions.
There are eight people in a family viz. M, K, A, C, D, E, G and H consists of 3 generations. (Note-order is not necessarily same) Four of them are female. D and A are daughter and son of K respectively and both are married. E is sister of H whose father is C. M and G are of 3rd generation and M is son-in-law of E. K is brother-in-law of H.
Who among the following is sister-in-law of D?
H	B. A
C. M	D. G
E. C
If Q is child of D then how A is related to that child?
Paternal uncle	B. Maternal uncle
C. Father	D. Cannot be determined
E. Grandfather
How is H related to D?
Sister	B. Mother
C. Grandmother	D. Sister-in-law
E. Aunt
Direction: Study the following information and answer the questions given below:
Each of five friends A, B, C, D and E travels different distances to their workplaces. A travels more than B but less than E. D travels more than only C. The one, who travels the most, travels 30 km. B travels 15 km to his workplace.
Who amongst the following possibly travels 5 km to the workplace?
A	B. C
C. D	D. E
E. Either C or D
Directions (98-100): Study the following information carefully and answer the questions given below:
Seven persons A, C, H, J, N, O, and V are arranged in terms of decreasing heights values but with random weights.
The height of C is 164 cm. The height of J, 161 cm is exactly in the middle. The lowest weight is 55 kg. All the weights are in multiple of 5 kg. O is not the shortest but its weight is highest. H is shorter than only two persons. N’s weight is 65 kg. The lowest height is 157 cm. The person with 80 kg weight is the longest. C is shorter than only one person. V’s weight is 70 kg, which is 5 kg less than
H. N is longer than both persons, who have highest weight and V. J does not have lowest weight. There is a difference of 9 cm between the person highest in height and person highest in weight.
What is the possible height of the person H?
160 cm	B. 162 cm
C. 163 cm	D. Either option b or c
E. 159 cm
Who among the following is the third shortest?
O	B. N
C. H	D. None of them is true
E. Either N or O
Which among the following has the second highest weight?
N	B. J
C. C	D. A
E. None of them
***
[[IMG:image2.jpeg]]
[[IMG:image7.jpeg]]